1. what is the structure or format of data called? Syntax



2. what was the first network called? ARPANET



3. Which type of transmission does a communication between a computer and a keyboard involve? simplex



4. what is the physical path over which a message travels? medium



5.which organization has authority over interstate and international commerce in the communication field? Federal communications commission



6. what is a set of rules that governs data communications called? Protocol



7. what kind of connection does three or more devices have if they share the link? Multipoint



8. when a collection of various computers seems a single coherent system to its client, then what is it called? Distributed system



9. When does network congestion occur? in case of traffic overloading



10. what type of network is a bluetooth an example of? personal area network



11. What type of network has a communication channel which is shared by all the machines on the network ? Broadcast network



12. which device forwards packets between networks by processing the routing information included in the packet? Router



13. what is a list of protocols used by a system, one protocol per layer? Protocol stack



14.Which computer network is built on the top of another network? Overlay network



15. what is the number of layers in Internet protocol stack



16. what is the number of layers in ISO OSI reference mode? Seven



17. where is the application layer implemented? end system



18. where is the transport layer implemented? End system



19. What are the functionalities of the presentation layer? Data compression, Data encryption, Data description



20. Which layer provides Delimiting and synchronization of data exchange? Session layer



21. In OSI model, when data is sent from device A to device B, which is the 5th layer to receive data at B? Session layer



22. In Internet protocol stack, when data is sent from device A to device B, which is the 5th layer to receive data at B? Application layer



23. In the OSI model, as a data packet moves from the lower to the upper layers, what action is performed to the headers? Removed



24. What does OSI stand for? Open system interconnection



25. How many layers does the OSI model have? Seven



26. how many layers does the TCP/IP model have? Five



27. which layers does the OSI model have, but the TCP/IP model doesn’t? Session layer and presentation layer



28. Which layer links the network support layers and user support layers? Transport layer



29. Which addresses is used in an internet employing the TCP/IP protocols? physical address and logical address, port address, specific address



30. Which layer is responsible for process to process delivery? transport layer



31. Which address identifies a process on a host?port address



32.Which layer provides the services to user? Application layer



33. which layer decides Transmission data rate? Physical layer



34. what services are provided by DSL telco? Wired phone access and ISP 



35. what is the function of DSLAM? Convert analog signals to digital signals



36. Which cables do HFC contain? Fiber and coaxial



37. Which type of access does StarBand provide? Satellite access



38. what are the factors affecting transmission rate in DSL? the gauge of the twisted pair line and degree of electrical interference 



39. Which cable is used to connect the splitter to ONT? Optical cable



40. What does the physical layer concentrate on? Bit by bit delivery 



41.Which transmission media has the highest transmission speed in a network? Optical fiber



42. Which type of modulation can we use to send bits over guided and unguided media as analog signal ? Digital modulation



43. what is the portion of physical layer that interfaces with the media access control sublayer? Physical signaling sublayer



44. What does the physical layer provide in asynchronous serial communication? Start and stop signaling and flow control



45. what is the physical layer is responsible for? line coding, channel coding and modulation



46. Which phenomenon requires a single channel is shared by multiple signals? Multiplexing



47. The physical layer translates logical communication requests into hardware specific operations from which layer? Datalink layer



48. what are the functions of the data link layer? Framing, error control and flow control



49. Which sublayer of the data link layer performs data link functions that depend upon the type of medium? media access control sublayer



50. What does the header of a frame contain? synchronization bytes, addresses and frame identifier



51. which sublayer provides Automatic repeat request error management mechanism is? Logical link control sublayer



52. When 2 or more bits in a data unit has been changed during the transmission, what is the error is called? burst error



53. What does CRC stand for? Cyclic redundancy check



54. which are the two types of the multiple access protocol for channel access control? CSMA/CD and CSMA/CA



55. what are the different data link protocols? Ethernet, point to point protocol and HDLC



56. what is the technique of temporarily delaying outgoing outgoing acknowledgements so that they can be hooked onto the next outgoing data frame called? piggybacking



57. what is the data units handled by the network layer called? Packets



58. what are the functions of the network layer? Routing, inter-networking and congestion control



59. what does the 4 byte IP address consists of? Network address and host address



60. what identifies a packet belonging to a particular virtual circuit? Virtual Circuit number

61. What are the different routing algorithms used in the network layer? Shortest path algorithm, distance vector routing, link state routing



62. What is a subset of a network that includes all the routers but contains no loops called? Spanning tree



63. what are the algorithms used for congestion control? Traffic aware routing, admission control and load shedding



64. Which is the protocol used in the network layer of the internet? internet protocol



65. What is the ICMP is primarily used for? Error and diagnostic functions



66. which transport protocols are used in the internet? TCP and UDP



67. Why is the User datagram protocol is called connectionless? all UDP packets are treated independently by transport layer



68. which type of protocol is TCP? Connection oriented protocol



69. what does the TCP use to establish a connection? Three way handshake



70. what is an endpoint of an inter-process communication flow across a computer network? socket



71. what is the Socket-style API for windows? Windsock



72. Name a version of UDP with congestion control? Datagram congestion control protocol



73. What is a TCP name for a transport service access point? Port



74. what type of communication does Transport layer protocols deals with? Process to process communication

 

75. stream control transmission protocol is a type of which layer protocol? Transport layer protocol



76. what is the Physical or logical arrangement of network called? Topology



77. which type of topology contains a hub? Star



78. Which type of connection does the bus topology require? Multipoint connection



79. What is the type of Data communication system spanning states, countries, or the whole world called? WAN



80.what is the type of Data communication system within a building or campus called? LAN



81. what does PAN stand for? personal area network



82. what does MAN stand for? Metropolitan area network



83. what does WAN stand for? wide area network



84. what does LAN stand for? local area network



85. In TDM, what are slots are further divided into? Frames



86. which type of Multiplexing technique that shifts each signal to a different carrier frequency? FDM



87. what is the sharing of a medium and its link by two or more devices called? Multiplexing



88. what type of switching uses multiplexing? Circuit switching



89. Which multiplexing technique transmits digital signals ? TDM



90. If there are N signal sources of same data rate than TDM link has how many slots? N



91. What is the state when dedicated signals are idle called? Silent period



92. what can multiplexing provide? Efficiency and privacy



93. Which multiplexing technique shifts each signal to a different carrier frequency? FDM



94. What are the types of delays faced by the packet in traveling from one end system to another? Propagation delay, Queuing delay and transmission delay



95. What is the time required to examine the packet’s header and determine where to direct the packet is part of? Processing delay



96. In a network, If P is the only packet being transmitted and there was no earlier transmission, which of the delays could be zero? Queuing delay



97. what does Transmission delay depend on? Packet length and transmission rate



98. What does propagation delay depend on? distance between the nodes



99. what are the attackers a network of compromised devices known as? Botnet



100. What are the different forms of DoS attacks? Vulnerability attack, Bandwidth flooding and Connection flooding



101. which form of DoS attack is the one in which the attacker establishes a large number of half-open or fully open TCP connections at the target host? Connection flooding



102. Which form of DoS attack is the one in which the attacker sends deluge of packets to the targeted host? Bandwidth flooding



103. what do Packet sniffers involve?passive receiver



104. Where can sniffers be deployed in? Wired environment, ethernet LAN and WiFi



105. what are firewalls configured to block? UDP traffic



106. Coaxial cable usually consists of how many copper conductors? Two



107. What are the properties of fiber optics? Immune electromagnetic interference, Very less signal attenuation and Very hard to tap



108. how many groups are Terrestrial radio channels are broadly classified into? Three



109. why are radio channels attractive? Because they can penetrate walls, Connectivity can be given to mobile user and Can carry signals for long distance



110. Which satellites are placed at fixed point above the earth? Geostationary satellites



111. A local telephone network is an example of a which typeof network? Packet switched



112. Which principle do most packet switches use? Store and forward



113. what are the different methods to move data through a network of links and switches? Packet switching and circuit switching



114. What are the services offered by application layer?  Network virtual terminal, File transfer, access, and management and Mail service



115. In which type of switching resources are allocated on demand?packet switching



116. As the resources are reserved between two communicating end systems in circuit switching, what is achieved? Guaranteed constant rate



117. The resources needed for communication between end systems are reserved for the duration of session between end systems in which type of switching? Circuit switching



118. HTTP is an example of which layer protocol? Application layer



119. SMTP is an example of which layer protocol? Application layer



120. FTP is an example of which layer protocol? Application layer

121. What is the packet of information at the application layer is called? message



122.  what is an Application developer permitted to decide on transport layer side? Transport layer protocol and maximum buffer size



123.  what kind of service does application layer offer? end to end



124. Which type of application is Email an example of? Elastic application



125. To deliver a message to the correct application program running on a host, which address must be consulted? Port address



126. Internet telephony is an example of what type of service? Time sensitive service



127. Electronic mail uses which Application layer protocol? SMTP



128.  What translates internet domain and host names to IP address? DNS



129. Which protocol allows a user at one site to establish a connection to another site and then pass keystrokes from local host to remote host? Telnet



130. Which protocol delivers/stores mail to receiver server? SMTP



131. what is the ASCII encoding of binary data is called? Base 64 encoding



132. Which protocol is an internet standard protocol for managing devices on IP network? simple newtwork management protocol



133. Which protocol is a signalling communication protocol used for controlling multimedia communication sessions? session initiation protocol



134. When displaying a web page, the application layer uses which protocol? HTTP protocol



135. What is the default connection type used by HTTP? Persistent



136. what is the time taken by a packet to travel from client to server and then back to the client is called ? Round trip time



137. The HTTP request message is sent in which part of three-way handshake? Third



138. In the process of fetching a web page from a server the HTTP request/response takes how many RTTs? One



139.  what is the first line of HTTP request message called? Request line



140. The values GET, POST, HEAD etc are specified in which part of HTTP message? Request line



141. Which method when used in the method field, leaves entity body empty? GET



142. The HTTP response message leaves out the requested object when which method is used? HEAD



143.  Which mechanism helps to keep a cache up to date? Conditional GET



144. what is is present in both an HTTP request line and a status line? HTTP version number



145. Multiple object can be sent over a TCP connection between client and server in which type of HTTP? persistent HTTP



146.  HTTP is an example of which layer protocol? application layer



147. What are the resources located by in the network protocol? Uniform resource identifier



148.  HTTP client requests by establishing which type of connection to a particular port on the server? TCP



149. FTP server listens for connection on which port number? 21



150. In FTP protocol, client contacts server using ____ as the transport protocol? TCP



151. In which mode of FTP does the client initiate both the control and data connections? passive mode



152. The file transfer protocol is built on which type of architecture? client server architecture



153.  In file transfer protocol, data transfer can be done in which different modes? Stream mode, block mode and compressed mode



154. what does FTP stand for? File transfer protocol



155.  FTP uses how many parallel TCP connections to transfer a file? Two



156.  The commands, from client to server, and replies, from server to client, are sent across the control connection in how many bit ASCII format? 7



157. which command is used to send password to the server? PASS



158.  When the mail server sends mail to other mail servers which type of client does it act as? SMTP client



159. If you have to send multimedia data over SMTP it has to be encoded into which format? ASCII



160. what does SMTP stand for? Simple Mail Transfer Protocol



161. In SMTP, the command to write receivers mail address is written with which command? RCPT TO



162. Which underlying Transport layer protocol is used by SMTP? TCP



163. Internet mail places each object in how many messages? one



164. which TCP port is used by SMTP? Port number 25



166. how many transactions does a session involve? Zero or more

167. When the sender and the receiver of an email are on different systems, how many UAs and how many MTAs are required? 2 UA and two pairs of MTA



168. Simple mail transfer protocol (SMTP) utilizes which protocol as the transport layer protocol for electronic mail transfer? TCP



169. What are SMTP connections secured by SSL are known as? SMTPS



170. Which TCP port does SMTP use? port number 25



171.What is on-demand mail relay (ODMR)? an SMTP extension



172. An email client needs to know which address of its initial SMTP server? IP address



173. what does an SMTP define? message transport



174. Which SMTP server is configured in such a way that anyone on the internet can send e-mail through it? open mail relay



175. Where does an SMTP deliver messages to? User’s terminal or user’s mailbox



176. the host name can have a maximum of how many characters? 255 characters



177. what is DNS client called? DNS resolver



178. how do Servers handle requests for other domains? by contacting remote DNS server



179. If a server has no clue about where to find the address for a hostname then what does it do? server asks to the root server



180. Which type of DNS allows client to update their DNS entry as their IP address change? dynamic DNS



181. what does a Wildcard domain name start with? ‘*’ label



182. The right to use a domain name is delegated by domain name registers are accredited by which legal body? internet corporation for assigned names and numbers



183.The domain name system is maintained by which system? distributed database system



184. Secure shell (SSH) network protocol is used for what purposes? secure data communication, remote command-line login and remote command execution



185. SSH can be used in only which operating systems? unix-like operating systems and windows



186. What does the SSH use to to authenticate the remote computer?  public-key cryptography



187. Which standard TCP port is assigned for contacting SSH servers? Port number 22



188. Which protocols can be used for login to a shell on a remote host except SSH? telnet and rlogin



189. Which file transfer protocol uses SSH? SCP, SFTP and Rsync



190. SSH-2 does not contain which layer? Physical layer



191. SCP protocol is evolved from which protocol over SSH? RCP protocol



192. Which one of the following authentication method is used by SSH? public-key, host based and password



193.DHCP (dynamic host configuration protocol) provides which address to the client? IP address



194. Which server maintains the information about client configuration parameters? DHCP server



195. Which server grants a IP address when receives a request from a client? DHCP server

196. IP assigned for a client by DHCP server is for what period? A limited period



197. DHCP uses which UDP port for sending data to the server? Port 67



198.what are the different allocations of the IP address that can be provided by the DHCP server? Dynamic, automatic and static allocation



199. How do DHCP clients and servers on the same subnet communicate? UDP broadcast



200. After obtaining the IP address, to prevent the IP conflict the client may use which protocol? ARP



201. What is DHCP snooping? techniques applied to ensure the security of an existing DHCP infrastructure



202. If DHCP snooping is configured on a LAN switch, then clients having which address can access the network? MAC and IP address



203.IPsec is designed to provide the security at which layer? Network layer



204. What does the IPsec protect in the tunnel mode? The IP packet



205. what an extension of an enterprise’s private intranet across a public Network such as the Internet across a public Network such as the Internet, creating a secure private connection? VPN



206. authentic header is an essential component of what? IP security



207. encapsulating security payload is an essential component of what? IP security



208. internet key exchange is an essential component of what? IP security



209. WPA2 is best used with what? WiFi connection



210. what is an attempt to make a computer resource unavailable to its intended users called? Denial of service attack

211.  where is Pretty good privacy (PGP) used? Email security



212.  Extensible authentication protocol is authentication framework frequently used where? Wireless network



213.  PGP encrypts data by using which block cipher algorithm? International data encryption algorithm



214. When a DNS server accepts and uses incorrect information from a host that has no authority giving that information, what is this called? DNS spoofing



215. When were VPNs introduced into the commercial world? Late 90’s



216. What are the protocol used in the operation of a VPN? PPTP, IPsec and L2TP



217. Which layer 3 protocols can be transmitted over a L2TP VPN? IP and IPX



218. ESP (Encapsulating Security Protocol) is defined in which of the following standards? IPsec



219. L2F was developed by which company? Cisco



220. Which layer of the OSI reference model does PPTP work at? Presentation layer



221.  Which layer of the OSI reference model does IPsec work at? Session layer



222. what does storage management comprise of? SAN management, Data protection and disk operation



223. Which protocols are used for Storage management? SNMP



224. What are the difficulties the SAN administrator incur while dealing with diverse vendors? Proprietary management interfaces, Multiple applications to manage storage in the data center and No single view



225. How do Storage administrators ensure secure access to storage devices? By using Zoning



226. What does effective Storage management include? Securities, Backups and Reporting



227. what are the tasks involved in Storage Capacity management? Identifying storage systems are approaching full capacity, Monitoring trends for each resource and Tracking Total capacity, total used, total available



228. what are the effects of open standards like SMI(s)? Standardization drives software interoperability and interchange ability. Breaks the old-style dependence on proprietary methods, trade secrets, and single providers. Builds a strong foundation on which others can quickly build and innovate.



229. What does SMI-S Standard use? CIM-XML/HTTP



230. which is an application-level protocol in which a few manager stations control a set of agents? SNMP



231. by how much does full duplex mode increases capacity of each domain? 10-20 mbps



232.  what do we need to use Simple Network Management System (SNMP)? Rules



233. what are the two subsystems configuration management can be divided into? Reconfiguration and documentation



234. what is the main difference between SNMPv3 and SNMPv2? Enhanced security



235. Structure of Management Information (SMI) is guideline of which protocol? SNMP



236.  SNMP is a framework for managing devices in an internet using which protocol? TCP/IP



237. what does BER stand for? Basic encoding rules



238. Control of users’ access to network resources through charges are main responsibilities of which management? Security management



239. In Network Management System what is responsible for controlling access to network based on predefined policy? Security management



240. What is the protocol used by Telnet application? Telnet



241. Most text typed is immediately sent to the remote host for processing in which mode? In “character at a time” mode



242. what  allows you to connect and login to a remote computer? Telnet



243. what type of login is telnet? Remote Login



244. Which operating mode of telnet is full duplex? Line mode



245. If we want that a character be interpreted by the client instead of server what has to be done? escape character has to be used



246. Telnet protocol is used to establish a connection to which port? TCP port number 23



247. All telnet operations are sent in how many bytes? 8 bytes



248. AbsoluteTelnet is a telnet client for which OS? windows



249. What is the decimal code of interpret as command (IAC) character? 255



250. each character typed is sent by the client to the server in which mode?  In character mode operation of telnet implementation



251. Can telnet also be used for file transfer? No



252. In telnet, the client echoes the character on the screen but does not send it until a whole line is completed in which mode? Default mode



253. In TCP, how is sending and receiving data done? Stream of bytes



254. TCP process may not write and read data at the same speed, So what do we use for storage? Buffers



255. TCP groups a number of bytes together into a unit called? Segment



256. Which type of communication is offered by TCP? full duplex



257. To achieve reliable transport in TCP, what is used to check the safe and sound arrival of data? Acknowledgment



258. In segment header, what does the sequence number and acknowledgement number field refers to? Byte number



259. Bytes of data being transferred in each connection are numbered by TCP, from where do these numbers starts with?  Sequence of zero’s and one’s



260. what does the value of acknowledgement field in a segment define? Number of next bytes to receive



261.  what does the control of the amount of data by the receiver referred to as? Flow control



262. What is the size of TCP segment header? 20 - 60 bytes



263. Connection establishment in TCP is done by which mechanism? Three-way handshaking



264. The server program tells its TCP that it is ready to accept a connection. what is this process called? Passive open



265. The process of a client wishing to connect to an open server and thereby telling its TCP that it needs to be connected to that particular server is called what? Active open



266. In Three-Way Handshaking process, what is the situation called where both the TCP’s issue an active open? Simultaneous open



267. what is the situation called when a malicious attacker sends a large number of SYNC segments to a server, pretending that each of them is coming from a different client by faking the source IP address in the datagrams? Denial-of-service attack



268.  What are the Sizes of source and destination port address of TCP header? 16 bits and 16 bits



269. Connection establishment in TCP is done by which mechanism? Three-Way Handshaking



270. what type of protocol is UDP? Unreliable, connectionless transport layer protocol



271. what is the Return value of the UDP port “Chargen” ? String of characters



272. What is the main advantage of UDP? less overload



273.  what is the Port number used by Network Time Protocol(NTP) with UDP? 123



274. what is the header size of UDP packet? 8 bytes



275. If the source host is the client, the port number in most cases will be what kind of a port. Number? Ephemeral port number



276. which field is used to detect errors over the entire user datagram? Checksum



277. Which mode of IPsec should you use to assure security and confidentiality of data within the same LAN? ESP transport mode



278. Which two types of encryption protocols can be used to secure the authentication of computers using IPsec? SHA and MD5



279. Which two types of IPsec can be used to secure communications between two LANs? AH tunnel mode and ESP tunnel mode



280. What provides authentication at the IP level? AH



281. which two protocols does IPsec define? AH and ESP

282. IP Security operates in which layer of the OSI model? Network



283. what does ESP provide? Source authentication, data integrity and privacy



284. which term in computer security refers to the phenomenon by which computer system assets can be modified only by authorized parities? Confidentiality



285. Which organization is primarily concerned with military encryption systems? NSA



286. what are the two broad categories of congestion control? Open-loop and Closed-loop



287. In open-loop control, why are policies applied? Prevent before congestion occurs



288. when is retransmission of packets done? when they are lost, corrupted or needed



289. Discarding policy is mainly done by which device ? Router



290. when is closed loop control mechanism applied? Remove after congestion



291. What is the technique in which a congested node stops receiving data from the immediate upstream node or nodes called? Backpressure



292. Backpressure technique can be applied only to which type of networks? virtual circuit networks



293. what is the packet sent by a node to the source to inform it of congestion called? choke



294. In the slow-start algorithm, the size of the congestion window increases in what manner until it reaches a threshold? Exponentially



295. In the congestion avoidance algorithm, the size of the congestion window increases in what manner until congestion is detected? Additively

296. Virtual circuit network is implemented in which layer? network layer



297. which Identifier is used for data transfer in virtual circuit network? VC identifier



298. The address that is unique in the scope of the network or internationally if the network is part of an international network is called what? global address



299. what are the steps required in setup process? Setup request and acknowledgement



300. During the teardown phase, what does the source send after sending all the frames to notify termination? Teardown request



301. If resource allocated during setup phase then how does delay for each packet? delay is same for each packet



302. If resource allocated on demand then how does delay for each packet? delay is different for each packet



303. In data transfer phase, the table contains how many columns? 4



304. What is the size of the payload field of an ATM cell? 48 bytes

 

305. Where does the frame relay have an error detection mechanism? data link layer



306. what is the virtual circuit identifier in frame relay called? data link connection identifier



307. In frame relay networks, what is the extended address used for? to increase the range of data link connection identifiers



308. What is FRAD in frame relay network? FRAD assembles and disassembles the frames coming from other protocols



309. What option does the Frame Relay networks offer? Voice Over Frame Relay

310. How many total features of Frame Relay are there? Nine



311. Frame Relay does not provide flow or error control, which protocol must they be provided by? Upper Level Protocol



312. Frame relay has error detection at which layer? Data link layer



313. what is the Virtual circuit identifier in frame relay called? data link connection identifier



314. Which type of webpage is generated on demand by a program or a request from browser? Dynamic web page



315. Which program is used to view html documents? web browser



316. Which program is used to display a web page? web browser



317. Which enables user to access the resources of internet? web browser



318. what is the Common gateway interface used for? generate executable files from web content by web server



319. What does URL stand for? uniform resource locator



320. what is a web cookie? is a small piece of data sent from a website and stored in user’s web browser while a user is browsing a website



321. What is an alternative to javascript on windows platform? VBScript



322. What is document object model (DOM)? convention for representing and interacting with objects in html documents



323. what does AJAX stand for? asynchronous javascript and xml



324. Error reporting is handled by which protocol? ICMP



325. which type of service identifies the type of packets? TOS-type of service



326. The data field can carry which type of messages? ICMP messages

327. What should be the flag value to indicate the last fragment? 0



328. what are the demerits of fragmentation? What should be the flag value to indicate the last fragment?



329. Which field helps to check rearrangement of the fragments? Offset



330.  In classless addressing, there are no classes but addresses are still granted in what form? Blocks



331. In IPv4 Addresses, what is classful addressing replaced with? classless addressing



332. what does the First address in a block is used as network address represent?  Organization



333. Network addresses are very important concepts of which type of addressing? IP addressing



334. what is the size of IP address in IPv6 ? 128 bits



335. what is the size of IP address in IPv6 ? 40 bytes



336. n the IPv6 header, the traffic class field is similar to which field in the IPv4 header? TOS field



337. IPv6 does not use which type of address? Broadcast



338. what are the features present in IPv4 but not in IPv6? Fragmentation, header checksum and options



339.  Which field determines the lifetime of IPv6 datagram? Hop limit



340. how is dual stack approach implemented? Implementing Ipv6 with 2 stacks



341. Teredo is an automatic tunneling technique. In each client the obfuscated IPv4 address is represented by which bits? Bits 96-127



342. Where is a link local address of local addresses is used? isolated subnet



343. In IPv6 addresses, which type of addresses start with eight 0s? Reserved addresses



344. When was IPV6 launched? June 6, 2012



345. In subcategories of reserved address in IPv6, which address is used by a host to test itself without going into network? Loopback address



346. Which layer is responsible for process-to-process delivery? Transport layer



347. In process-to-process delivery, two processes communicate in which of the following methods? Client/Server



348. Multiple processes on destinations at transport layer are identified by what? Port number



349. what is the range of port numbers in Internet model? 0 and 65,535(16-bit)



350. What are the port number ranges divided by IANA? IANA divided port number range in to three i.e., Well-known, Registered and Dynamic ports.



351. What is the combination of an IP address and port number called? Socket address



352. In transport layer, where is Multiplexing done? Sender site



353. What is the process of error checking and dropping of the header, delivering messages to appropriate process based on port number called? Demultiplexing



354. what has the Internet Control Message Protocol(ICMP) been designed to compensate?  Error-reporting, Error-correction and Host and management queries



355. what is the header size of the ICMP message? 8 bytes

356. During error reporting, where does the ICMP always report the error messages? Source



357. When a router cannot route a datagram or host cannot deliver a datagram, the datagram is discarded and the router or the host sends which type of message back to the source host that initiated the datagram? Destination unreachable



358. The source-quench message in ICMP was designed to add what kind of mechanism to the IP? Flow control



359. During debugging, which program can we use to find if a host is alive and responding? Ping



360.  In windows, what can be used to trace the route of the packet from the source to the destination? Tracert



361. what was the main reason for transition from IPv4 to IPv6 ? Huge number of systems on the internet



362. what are the three transition strategies? Dual stack, tunneling and header translation



363. To determine which version to use when sending a packet to a destination, the source host queries which of the following? DNS



364. what is the strategy used when two computers using IPv6 want to communicate with each other and the packet must pass through a region that uses IPv4? Tunneling



365. what is necessary when the sender wants to use IPv6, but the receiver does not understand IPv6? Header translation



366. Header translation uses which address to translate an IPv6 address to an IPv4 address? Mapped address



367.  In header translation procedure, what is ignored? IPv6 flow label



368. In the IPv6 header, the traffic class field is similar to which field in the IPv4 header? TOS field

369.The combination of which two numbers is often termed the local address of the local portion of the IP address? Subnet number and host number



370. Which type of subletting Subnet number and host number? Static subletting



371. Which is a high performance fiber optic token ring LAN running at 100 Mbps over distances upto 1000 stations connected? FDDI



372. what is a collective term for a number of Ethernet Standards that carry traffic at the nominal rate of 1000 Mbit/s against the original Ethernet speed of 10 Mbit/s? fast ethernet



373.  What is another kind of fiber optic network with an active star for switching? S/NET



374. Which type of Ethernet framing is used for TCP/IP and DEC net? Ethernet II



375. Which NetWare protocol works on layer 3–network layer—of the OSI model? IPX



376. Which NetWare protocol provides link-state routing? NLSP



377.  What does the “IPX maximum-paths 2” command accomplish? It enables load sharing on 2 paths if the paths are equal metric paths



378. How often does a RIPv1 router broadcast its routing table by default? Every 30 seconds



379. Which command displays RIP routing updates? Debug IP rip



380. Which protocol gives a full route table update every 30 seconds?RIP



381. Where we should use default routing? On stub networks- which have only one exit path out of the network



382. What is route poisoning? It describes when a router sets the metric for a downed link to infinity

383. Which two routing protocols can be redistributed into OSPF by a Cisco router? IP EIGRP and RIPv2



384. Which is a reason for avoiding doing route redistribution on two routers between the same two routing domains? Routing feedback



385. What does administrative distance rank? Sources of routing information



386. Which protocol maintains neighbor adjacencies? RIPv2



387. Which routing protocol implements the diffusing update algorithm? EIGRP



388. In cryptography, what is cipher? algorithm for performing encryption and decryption



389. n asymmetric key cryptography, the private key is kept by whom? Receiver



390. In cryptography, the order of the letters in a message is rearranged by which cipher? transpositional cipher



391. What is data encryption standard (DES)? Block cipher



392. Why is Cryptanalysis used? to find some insecurity in a cryptographic scheme



393. Voice privacy in GSM cellular telephone protocol is provided by which cipher? A5/2 cipher



394. ElGamal encryption system is which kind of algorithm? asymmetric key encryption algorithm



395. Cryptographic hash function takes an arbitrary block of data and returns what? fixed size bit string



396. Multiple object can be sent over a TCP connection between client and server in which type of HTTP? Persistent HTTP



397.  what are HTTP resources located in the network? Uniform resource identifier



398. HTTP client requests by establishing which type of connection to a particular port on the server? Transmission control protocol



399. In which mode FTP, does the client initiates both the control and data connections? Passive mode



400. Which methods are commonly used in Server Socket class? Public Socket accept ()

