one or two computers, while very large institutions
had at most a few dozen. The idea that within forty years vastly more powerful computers smaller than postage stamps would be mass produced by the billions was pure science fiction.
The merging of computers and communications has had a profound influence
on the way computer systems are organized. The once-dominant concept of the
‘‘computer center’’ as a room with a large computer to which users bring their
work for processing is now totally obsolete (although data centers holding thou-
sands of Internet servers are becoming common). The old model of a single com-
puter serving all of the organization’s computational needs has been replaced by one in which a large number of separate but interconnected computers do the job.
These systems are called computer networks. The design and organization of
these networks are the subjects of this book.
Throughout the book we will use the term ‘‘computer network’’ to mean a col-
lection of autonomous computers interconnected by a
single technology. Two computers are said to be interconnected if they are able to exchange information.
The connection need not
be via a copper wire; fiber optics, microwaves, infrared,
and communication
satellites can
also be used. Networks come in many sizes,
shapes and forms, as we will see
later. They are usually
connected
together to
make larger networks, with the
Internet
being the most well-known
example of a
network of networks.
There is considerable confusion in the
literature
between a computer network
and a
distributed system
. The key distinction is that in a distributed system, a
collection of independent computers appears to its users as a single coherent sys-
tem. Usually, it has a single model or paradigm that it presents to the users. Of-
ten a layer of software on top of the operating system, called
middleware
,is
responsible for
implementing this model.
A well-known example
of a distributed
system is the
World Wide Web
. It runs on top of the Internet and presents a
model in which everything looks like a document (Web page).
In a computer network, this coherence, model, and software are absent. Users
are exposed to the actual machines, without any attempt by the system to make
the machines look and act in a coherent way. If the machines have different hard-
ware and different operating systems, that is fully visible to the users. If a user wants to run a program on a remote machine, he
has to log onto that machine and
run it there.
In effect, a distributed system is a software system built on top of a network.
The software gives it a high degree of cohesiveness and transparency. Thus, the
distinction between a network and a distributed system lies with the software (especially the operating system), rather than with the hardware.
Nevertheless, there is considerable overlap between the two subjects. For ex-
ample, both distributed systems and computer networks need to move files
around. The difference lies in who invokes the movement, the system or the user.
‘‘He’’ should be read as ‘‘he or she’’ throughout this book.
Although this book primarily focuses on networks, many of the topics are also im-
portant in distributed systems. For more information about distributed systems,
see Tanenbaum and Van Steen (2007).
1.1 USES OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
Before we start to examine the technical issues in detail, it is worth devoting
some time to pointing out why people are interested in computer networks and
what they can be used for. After all, if nobody were interested in computer net-
works, few of them would be built. We
will start with traditional uses at com-
panies, then move on to home
networking and
recent
developments regarding
mobile users, and finish with social issues.
1.1.1 Business Applications
Most companies have a substantial number of computers. For example, a
company may have a computer
for each
worker and use them to design products,
write brochures, and do the payroll. I
nitially, some of these
computers may have
worked in isolation from the others, but at some point, management may have
decided to
connect them to be
able to distribute information throughout the com-
pany.
Put in slightly more general form, the issue here is
resource
sharing
. The
goal is to make all programs, equipment, and especially data available to anyone
on the network without regard
to the physical location of
the resource or the user.
An obvious and widespread example is having a group of office workers share a
common printer. None of the individuals really needs a private printer, and a
high-volume networked printer is often cheaper, faster, and easier to maintain
than a large collection of individual printers.
However, probably even more important
than sharing physical
resources such
as printers, and tape backup systems, is sharing information. Companies small
and large are vitally dependent on computerized information. Most companies
have customer records, product information, inventories, financial statements, tax
information, and much more online. If all of its computers suddenly went down, a
bank could not last more than five minutes. A modern manufacturing plant, with
a computer-controlled assembly line, would not last
even 5 seconds. Even a small
travel agency or three-person law firm is now highly dependent on computer net-
works for allowing employees to
access
relevant information and documents
instantly.
For smaller companies, all the computers are likely to be in a single office or
perhaps a single building, but for larger ones, the computers and employees may
be scattered over dozens of offices and plants in many countries. Nevertheless, a
sales person in New York might sometimes
need access
to a product inventory
4
INTRODUCTION
CHAP. 1
database in Singapore. Networks called
VPNs
(
Virtual Private Networks
) may
be used to join the individual networks at different sites into one extended net-
work. In other words, the mere fact that a user happens to be 15,000 km away
from his data should not prevent him from using the data as though they were
local. This goal may be summarized by saying that it is an attempt to end the
‘‘tyranny of geography.’’
In the simplest of terms, one can imagine a company’s information system as
consisting of one or more databases with company information and some number
of employees who need to
access them
remotely. In this model, the data are stor-
ed on powerful computers called
servers
. Often these are centrally housed and
maintained by a system administrator. In contrast, the employees have simpler
machines, called
clients
, on their desks, with which
they access
remote data, for
example, to include in spreadsheets they are constructing. (Sometimes we will
refer to the human user of the client machine as the ‘‘client,’’ but it should be
clear from the context whether we mean the computer or its user.) The client and
server machines are
connected by a
network, as
illustrated in Fig.
1-1. Note that
we have shown the network as a simple oval, without any detail. We will use this
form when we mean a network in the most abstract sense. When more detail is
required, it will be provided.
Client
Server
Network
Figure 1-1.
A network with two clients and one server.
This whole arrangement is called the
client-server model
. It is widely used
and forms the basis of much network usage. The most popular realization is that
of a
Web application
, in which the server generates Web pages based on its data-
base in response to client
requests that may update
the database. The client-server
model is applicable when the client and server are both in the same building (and
belong to the same company), but also when they are far apart. For example,
when a person at
home accesses a p
age on the World Wide Web, the same model
is employed, with the remote Web server being the server and the user’s personal
SEC. 1.1
USES OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
5
computer being the client. Under
most conditions, one server can handle a large
number (hundreds or thousands) of clients simultaneously.
If we look at the client-server model in detail, we see that two processes (i.e.,
running programs) are involved, one on the client machine and one on the server
machine. Communication takes the form of the client process sending a message
over the network to the server process. The client process then waits for a reply
message. When the server process gets the request, it performs the requested
work or looks up the requested data and sends back a reply. These messages are
shown in Fig. 1-2.
Client process
Server process
Client machine
Network
Reply
Request
Server machine
Figure 1-2.
The client-server model involves requests and replies.
A second goal of setting up a computer network has to do with people rather
than information or even computers. A computer network can provide a powerful
communication medium
among employees. Virtually every company that has
two or more computers now has
email
(
electronic mail
), which employees gener-
ally use for a great deal of daily communication. In fact, a common gripe around
the water cooler is how much
email everyone has to
deal with, much of it quite
meaningless
because
bosses have discovered that they can send the same (often
content-free)
message to all their
subordinates at the push
of a button.
Telephone calls
between employees may be carried by the computer network
instead of by the phone
company. This technology is called
IP telephony
or
Voice over IP
(
VoIP
) when Internet technology is used. The microphone and
speaker at
each end may belong
to a VoIP-enabled phone or the employee’s com-
puter. Companies find this a wonderful way
to save on
their telephone bills.
Other, richer forms of communication are made possible by computer net-
works. Video can be added to audio so that employees at distant locations can see
and hear each
other as they hold a meeting. This technique is a powerful tool for
eliminating the cost and time previously devoted to travel.
Desktop sharing
lets
remote workers see and interact with a graphical computer screen. This makes it
easy for two or more people who work far apart to read and write a shared black-
board or write a report together. When one worker makes a change to an online
document, the others can see the
change immediately, instead
of waiting several
days for a letter. Such a speedup
makes cooperation among far-flung groups of
people easy where it
previously had been impossible.
More ambitious forms of
remote coordination such as telemedicine are only now starting to be used (e.g.,
6
INTRODUCTION
CHAP. 1
remote patient monitoring) but may become much more important. It is some-
times said that communication and transportation
are having a
race, and
which-
ever wins will make the other obsolete.
A third goal for many companies is doing business electronically, especially
with customers and suppliers. This
new model is called
e-commerce
(
electronic
commerce
) and it has grown rapidly
in recent
years. Airlines, bookstores, and
other retailers have discovered that many
customers like the
convenience of shop-
ping from home. Consequently, many companies provide catalogs of their goods
and services online and take orders online. Manufacturers of automobiles, air-
craft, and computers, among others, buy subsystems from a variety of suppliers
and then assemble the parts. Using
computer networks, manufacturers
can place
orders electronically as needed. This reduces the need for large inventories and
enhances efficiency.
1.1.2 Home Applications
In 1977, Ken Olsen was president of the Digital Equipment Corporation, then
the number two computer vendor in the world (after IBM). When asked why Dig-
ital was not going after the personal computer market in a big way, he said:
‘‘There is no reason for any individual to have a computer in his home.’’ History
showed otherwise and Digital no longer exists. People
initially bought computers
for word processing and
games. Recently,
the biggest reason to buy a home com-
puter was probably for
Internet
access. Now,
many consumer electronic devices,
such as set-top boxes, game consoles, and clock radios, come with embedded
computers and computer networks, especially wireless networks, and home net-
works are broadly used for entertainment, including listening to, looking at, and
creating music, photos, and videos.
Internet
access
provides home users with
connectivity
to remote computers.
As with companies, home users can
access
information, communicate with other
people, and buy products and services with e-commerce. The main benefit now
comes from connecting
outside of the home. Bob Metcalfe, the inventor of Ether-
net, hypothesized that the
value of a network is proportional
to the square of the
number of users
because this
is roughly the number
of different
connections that
may be made (Gilder, 1993). This hypothesis is known as ‘‘Metcalfe’s law.’’ It
helps to explain how the tremendous popula
rity of the Internet comes from its
size.
Access to
remote information comes in many forms. It can be surfing the
World Wide Web for information or just for fun. Information available includes
the arts, business, cooking, government,
health, history, hobbies, recreation, sci-
ence, sports, travel, and many others. Fun comes in too many ways to mention,
plus some ways that are better left unmentioned.
Many newspapers have gone online and can be personalized. For example, it
is sometimes possible to tell a newspaper that you want everything about corrupt
SEC. 1.1
USES OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
7
politicians, big
fires, scandals involving
celebrities, and
epidemics, but no foot-
ball, thank you. Sometimes it is possible to have the selected articles downloaded
to your computer while you sleep. As this trend continues, it will cause massive
unemployment among 12-year-old paperboys, but
newspapers like it
because dis-
tribution has always been the weakest link in the whole production chain. Of
course, to make this model work, they will first have to figure out how to make
money in this new world, something not entirely obvious since Internet users
expect everything to be free.
The next step beyond newspapers (plus magazines and scientific journals) is
the online digital library. Many professional organizations, such as the ACM
(
www.acm.org
) and the IEEE
Computer Society (
www.computer.org
), already
have all their journals and conference
proceedings online.
Electronic book read-
ers and online libraries may make printed books obsolete. Skeptics should take
note of the effect the printing press
had on the
medieval illuminated
manuscript.
Much of this information
is accessed
using the client-server model, but there
is different, popular model for
accessing
information that goes by the name of
peer-to-peer
communication (Parameswaran et al., 2001). In this form, individu-
als who form a loose group can communicate with others in the group, as shown
in Fig. 1-3. Every person can, in principle, communicate with one or more other
people; there is no fixed division into clients and servers.
Figure 1-3.
In a peer-to-peer system there are no fixed clients and servers.
Many peer-to-peer systems, such BitTorrent (Cohen, 2003), do not have any
central database of content.
Instead,
each user
maintains his own database locally
and provides a list of other nearby people who are members of the system. A new
user can then go to any existing member to see what he has and get the names of
other members to inspect for more content and more names. This lookup process
can be repeated indefinitely to build up a large local database of what is out there.
It is an activity that would get tedious for people but computers excel at it.
8
INTRODUCTION
CHAP. 1
Peer-to-peer communication is often used to share music and videos. It really
hit the big time around 2000 with a music sharing service called Napster that was
shut down after what was probably the biggest copyright infringement case in all
of recorded history (Lam and Tan, 2001
; and Macedonia,
2000). Legal applica-
tions for peer-to-peer communication also exist. These include fans sharing pub-
lic domain music,
families sharing
photos and movies, and users downloading
public software packages. In fact, one of the most popular Internet applications
of all, email, is inherently peer-to-peer. This form of communication is likely to
grow considerably in the future.
All of the above applications involve interactions between a person and a re-
mote database full of information. The second
broad category of network use is
person-to-person communication, basically the 21st century’s answer to the 19th
century’s
telephone. E-mail is
already used on a daily basis by millions of people
all over the world and its use is growing rapidly. It already routinely contains
audio and video as well as text and pictures. Smell may take a while.
Any teenager worth his or her salt is addicted to
instant messaging
. This
facility, derived
from the
UNIX
talk
program in use since around 1970, allows two
people to type messages at
each other in
real time. There
are multi-person mes-
saging services too, such as the
Twitter
service that lets people send short text
messages called ‘‘tweets’’ to their circle of friends or other willing audiences.
The Internet can be used by applications to carry audio (e.g., Internet radio
stations) and video (e.g., YouTube). Besides being a cheap way to call to distant
friends, these applications can provide rich experiences such as telelearning,
meaning attending 8
A
.
M
. classes without the
inconvenience of
having to get out
of bed first. In the long run, the use of networks to enhance human-to-human
communication may prove more important than any of the others. It may become
hugely important to people who are geographically challenged, giving them the
same access
to services as people living in the middle of a big city.
Between person-to-person communications and
accessing
information are
social network
applications. Here, the flow of information is driven by the rela-
tionships that people declare between
each other.
One of the most popular social
networking sites is
Facebook
. It lets people update
their personal profiles and
shares the updates with other
people who they have declared to be their friends.
Other social networking applications can
make introductions via friends of
friends, send news messages to friends such
as Twitter above,
and much more.
Even more loosely, groups of people can work together to create content. A
wiki
, for example, is a collaborative Web site that the members of a community
edit. The most famous wiki is the
Wikipedia
, an encyclopedia anyone can edit,
but there are thousands of other wikis.
Our third category is electronic commerce in the broadest sense of the term.
Home shopping is already popular and enables users to inspect the online catalogs
of thousands of companies. Some of these catalogs are interactive, showing pro-
ducts from different viewpoints and in configurations that can be personalized.
SEC. 1.1
USES OF COMPUTER NETWORKS
9
After the customer buys a product electronically
but cannot figure out how to use
it, online technical support may be consulted.
Another area in which e-commerce is widely
used is
access to
financial insti-
tutions. Many people already pay their
bills, manage their
bank accounts, and
handle their investments electronically.  This trend will surely continue as net-
works become more secure.
One area that virtually nobody foresaw
is electronic flea
markets
(e-flea?).
Online auctions of second-hand goods have become a massive industry. Unlike
traditional
e-commerce, which follows the client-server model, online auctions
are peer-to-peer in the sense that consumers can act as both buyers and sellers.
Some of these forms of e-commerce have
acquired cute little
tags based on
the fact that ‘‘to’’ and ‘‘2’’ are pronounced the same. The most popular ones are
listed in Fig. 1-4.
Tag
Full name
Example
B2C
Business-to-consumer
Ordering books online
B2B
Business-to-business
Car
manufacturer ordering tires from supplier
G2C
Government-to-consumer
Government distributing tax forms electronically
C2C
Consumer-to-consumer
Auctioning second-hand products online
P2P
Peer-to-peer
Music sharing
Figure 1-4.
Some forms of e-commerce.
Our fourth category is entertainment. This has made huge strides in the home
in recent
years, with the distribution of music, radio and television programs, and
movies over the Internet beginning to
rival that of
traditional
mechanisms. Users
can find, buy, and download MP3 song
s and DVD-quality movies
and add them
to their personal collection. TV shows
now reach
many homes via
IPTV
(
IP
TeleVision
) systems that are based on IP
technology instead of cable TV or radio
transmissions. Media streaming applications let users tune into Internet radio sta-
tions or watch
recent
episodes of their favorite TV shows. Naturally, all of this
content can be moved around your house between different devices, displays and
speakers, usually with a wireless network.
Soon, it may be possible to search for any movie or television program ever
made, in any country, and have it displayed on your screen instantly. New films
may become interactive, where the user
is occasionally
prompted for the story
direction (should Macbeth murder Duncan or just bide his time?) with alternative
scenarios provided for all cases. Live television may also become interactive,
with the audience participating in quiz shows, choosing among contestants, and so
on.
Another form of entertainment is game
playing. Already we have multiperson
real-time simulation games, like hide-and-seek in a virtual dungeon, and flight
10
INTRODUCTION
CHAP. 1
simulators with the players on one team trying to shoot down the players on the
opposing team. Virtual worlds provide a persistent sett
